Colin's TODO list

- Create business cards for yourself! I've put files in Promotional > Business Cards, plus instructions for doing it. For mine, I'd like to keep the format of having WIBR-stuff on the front and CP stuff on the back. You are welcome to create CP-only cards (this is probably better because officially the WIBR doesn't like us to use their logo without getting it approved through the administration which is a pain).  I've got a word file that contains many links to the same business card file - that way you can adjust the business card file for different people or to update contact info, and then just change the link in the word file and it should all update. I bought stiff paper which apparently feeds through laser printers ok - it's on my desk. We have a laser printer in Lahra/David Sabatini's office called SABATINI COLOR you can use, but we should try to minimize how much color ink we use, so making the cards have a white background would be a good idea, and would look nice for the CP logo (for mine, with the WIBR stuff, i think we have to keep it purple background, but for practicing, I'd stick to a white background card). I'm sure we can find a paper cutter somewhere (perhaps the printing room, which i think is room 213).  The spacing of the cards on those template files may be messed up because it's designed for perforated business card paper, but that paper is kind of lame because it leaves little fuzzies on the edges of the cards so i think we are better off using plain card stock and a paper cutter.  Once you have things set up for you, I'd like one sheet of cards, and you can ask Mike & Susan if they'd like some too. Update the instructions if anything changes. I guess we could SVN commit a new card for each person?  or just store a card for each person on your local computer but leave the template untouched. whatever. have fun.  don't give yourself a fancy title.  :)  Colin Clarke, VP of UROPs.  :)

-(Colin, I put this on your list because I am pretty sure you took this functionality out after adding pathnameVAR. If you have too much stuff to do, just take a minute and come show me what exactly you took out because I am not sure what code it was. Thanks, -Mike)  (Requested by Anne 9-01-05) - We used to have code that allowed variable edit boxes to expand when the text within them was too long to fit. It mostly became unnecessary when Colin invented the new pathname entry boxes/browse buttons (because this usually only happens when we are dealing with typing pathnames into edit boxes), but I would still like edit boxes to expand if text becomes too long to fit, so we should find that code and re-implement it.

Colin is working on this?? - (Requested by Anne 8-29-05) - Add a check box to the main GUI (in the space near pixel size) for 'Diagnostic mode'. This would basically be like running the SpeedUpCellProfiler module option that strips out the handles.Pipeline just before saving the output file which dramatically reduces the output file size. I think people rarely want the contents of the Pipeline unless they are actually intensively writing a new module, so mostly it just adds a ton of extra data to the file.  The default should be to *not* run in diagnostic mode, and there should be a '?' button nearby telling the user what this does (the SpeedUpCellProfiler module might have a description you could copy & paste).