CellProfiler cell image analysis software development 
September 21, 2005  IN ORDER OF PRIORITY

Mike - I fixed this bug so it won't fail with RGB images, FYI:
-            if (max(max(LoadedImage)) < .0625) && (handles.Current.SetBeingAnalyzed == 1)
+            if (max(LoadedImage(:)) < .0625) && (handles.Current.SetBeingAnalyzed == 1)

(Requested by Anne 10-11-2005) - Check the file MatlabSetup.txt in DeveloperScripts - it seems to indicate that normally we just retrieve updates straight from the Mathworks website rather than waiting for CDs. Maybe give it a try.

(Requested by Anne 10-11-2005) - Retrieve the help from LoadImagesOrder and LoadMovies (Order & Text) and incorporate into LoadImages... we should make sure that we've not lost help from modules that were recently combined b/c a lot of work went into writing it up in the first place!

(Requested by Anne 10-11-2005)  - Remove makezips.sh from DeveloperScripts. Its functionality is now built into CP, as File > Save current CP code.

(Requested by Anne 10-11-2005) - Move CreateIlluminationCorrectionImageFromProjection.m to Outdated

(Requested by Anne 10-11-2005) - Can you figure out what TempMovieGenerate.m in the DeveloperScripts folder is trying to do? I think it was making a movie from histograms that were plotted over time. We'd like to have this type of functionality built into a module. Once you get oriented in that m-file let me know and we can figure out how we should implement this sort of thing into a regular module.

(Requested by Anne 10-11-2005) - Convert SplitUpAviMovie and SpliceAVIMovie (in DeveloperScripts) into a combined, regular CP module called SplitOrSpliceMovie.

- Make IdentifySecondary use same thresholding options as IdentifyPrimAutomatic, CPthreshold?

- (Requested by Anne 10-10-05) - write the software description for the CP manuscript, using the outline Anne gives you.

- (Requested by Anne 10-10-05) - Make CalculateStatistics module based on Ilya ravkins m files i emailed. Let me know when it's done and we can calculate the stats on the SBS competition and see how we did!!

- (Requested by Anne 10-10-05) - Make MeasureImageTexture based on measureobjecttexture

- (Requested by Anne 10-10-05) - Change the name of RGBMerge to GraytoRGB, and adjust the ExampleFlyPIPE & OUT accordingly.  Maybe also: should we change "RGB" to "Color", so it's GrayToColor and ColorToGray? I think this might make it nicer for biologists. Not sure if the general public knows what RGB means.

- (Requested by Anne 10-10-05) - Probably most modules should have a warning at the beginning if the image is outside the range 0-1.  Will have to think carefully about which modules would need this warning in order for them to function properly.  Make sure the warn  dialog does not pop up fresh each time - i think there is a way for matlab to only open the dialog if there isn't already a copy open.

UROP:

- (Requested by Anne 8-23-05) - Go through the code looking for instances of the term "image set" and replace with "cycle" where appropriate.

- (Requested by Anne 8-23-05) - Make sure all code is using CPfigure rather than figure. I think the DataLayout tool in particular is using figure.

- (Requested by Anne)- IdentifyPrimAutomatic has a nice thing when you click on one of the images within the figure that allows you to open in its own window, etc. We should implement this feature into all the modules.
- (Requested by Anne 10-10-05) - IdentifyPrimAuto has the nice image tools which appear when you click on one of the frames of the movie. I think we still need to adapt all the other modules to have this feature.

- (Requested by Anne) - Maybe make new pipelines to show off different features of CellProfiler if desired (e.g. the SpotIdentifier or yeast colony finding). [Anne recently did yeast colony finding and human nuclei - we can spruce these up just prior to release, so maybe put this back on the general TODO towards the bottom where we have "Pre-release" stuff to do.

- (Requested by Anne) - Adjust the boilerplate of authors in each m file:
 Authors (in order of joining the project):
   Anne E. Carpenter
   Thouis Ray Jones
   In Han Kang
   Ola Friman
   Steve Lowe
   Joo Han Chang
   Colin Clarke
   Mike Lamprecht
   Susan Ma
   Wyman Li

- (Requested by Anne) - Test each module on color vs grayscale and make sure they all work or have some type of error catching.

- (Requested by Anne 9-01-05) - We'd like to make the variable descriptions consistent - at the very least we should try to be consistent with stating "Choose" (rather than "select"), and phrasing things as questions versus "Enter the ..."   Also, look through the variable descriptions for uses of computer-ific words like 'segmentation'.

- (Requested by Anne 9-21-05) - We haven't tested these modules in a *very* long time - so we should try them out & make sure they work!
MergeBatchOutput
Restart

WANT IT ASAP:

-(MADE INITIAL CHANGES, WHAT TO DO FROM HERE) (Requested by Anne 9-01-05) - The AddModule window still needs a bit of work; it doesn't look very compact and neat. The browse button should be small and placed near the current path.  The other buttons could be smaller and more compact (e.g. move both help buttons up and have the word 'Help' placed between them). I'd vote for getting rid of the frames so that there is less clutter, and having just one frame around the buttons along the bottom, once we've removed the unnecessary buttons. I think we should get rid of the 'Add module' button and instead just have text say "Doubleclick to add modules to your pipeline" (maybe the title of the window itself should state that text; otherwise it could just be text along the top of the window). We could get rid of the Done button and assume the user will use the normal mechanism to close the window.
NEW IDEAS>>>  if no module selected and you clikc module help, it shoudl say 'click and then push this button'
'adding modules' help should be called '? Getting Started'
Did we lose the ? button above object processing?
Too much empty space at the top
change add module to Add Selected Module
Select a module, then...  [Add to pipeline] [get help on that one]
Done should be in bottom right or get rid of it altogether
Get rid of large frame? leave bottom one?
switch buttons with pathname

-(IS THIS FEASIBLE? CODE IS ALREADY COMPILED) (Requested by Anne 8-30-05) - It seems to take forever to smooth images when using a large artifact width in CPsmooth.  Can we make it faster?  Perhaps if the artifact width is large relative to the image size, we could resize the image first or something like that.

imfilter? ordfilt2? conv2? which is faster? are there others?  See IdentifyPrimAutomatic for blurring ideas, and also for an example of resizing.

- (Requested by Anne) - Make a module to identify and count and measure objects within previously identified objects (e.g. nucleoli or organelles or speckles within nuclei or cells). This also requires designing a way to store measurements of Subobjects. Here's Ola's suggestions:

	From: 	  friman@bwh.harvard.edu
	Subject: 	Storing subobjects
	Date: 	August 13, 2005 3:03:31 PM EDT
	To: 	  carpenter@wi.mit.edu

One simple way to store subobjects that fits into the current way
of saving measurements is simply to have a "feature/measurement" that
indicates the number of the parent object.
For example, to have a structure handles.Measurements.Nucleoli that in addition
to the usual measurements contains a handles.Meaurements.Nucleoli.Parent field
where the number of the corresponding parent object is stored, and a handles.Measurements.Nucleoli.ParentFeatures
which indicate the name of the parent (e.g. 'Cells' or 'Nuclei'). It is not straightforward to have a
similar entry for the parent objects since the parent objects (e.g. Cells) can have
a different number of children (while each child only has one parent object). Storing the numbers of the
children of a parent is not straightforward in the current measurement system, because the parent
objects can have a different number of children. This would require storing a cell array with
the numbers of the children for each parent object, and that would
cause problems for all data tools that don't know how to handle this cell array when
they encounter it. However, I guess there can be a handles.Measurements.Cells.Children field which contains
the names of the children objects (e.g. 'Nucleoli', 'Organelles', 'Speckles'....) but not corresponding numbers.
If one wants to find the children of a  certain Cell object with number K, one must then look in
handles.Measurements.Cells.Children to find the  name of the children (e.g. 'Nucleoli', 'Organelles', 'Speckles'....)
and then search e.g. handles.Meaurements.Nucleoli.Parent for the Nucleoli objects that have object K as parent.
It think it would be quite simple to introduce the above system in the IdentifyPrimary/IdentifySecondary/IndentifyTertiary
way of identifying objects.

Best,
Ola

- (Requested by Anne) - right now we choose between intensity and shape (or distance) at two places in IdentifyPrimAutomatic. It might be cool to develop a more sophisticated method that allows you to balance the input of these two sources of information.

- (Requested by Anne 9-28-05) - Build some kind of module that allows interfacing with ImageJ so that routines built for ImageJ can be run in CellProfiler??  No idea how complicated this would be.
>>> See practice ImageJ integration ideas below (two of them). Build a wrapping function that is a CP module which allows using ImageJ as a back end.

- (Requested by Anne 9-19-05) - For cytoplasmic/nuclear translocation, implement Ilya Ravkin's technique where instead of having a binary mask that denotes nucleus vs cytoplasm, there is a weighted function that is based on the nuclear stain. The Univ. Delft people have done similar work in this area.

- (Requested by Anne 8-29-05) - Not sure if this is feasible (especially across platforms), but it would be nice to have CellProfiler start by the user doubleclicking an icon rather than starting up Matlab and typing CellProfiler.

---------------------------------------------------
JUST PRIOR TO PUBLIC RELEASE:
- Make the download new modules work - I think it should also download new CellProfiler.m and ImageTools and DataTools, etc.
- Smart Indent
- M Lint error checking
- Check for TODO's and FIX ME's throughout the code
- Test every module & button
- Especially, check whether closing figure windows still allows the module to proceed - sometimes we have calculations in there which are necessary downstream that aren't calculated if the figure window is closed. Also, check whether starting a pipeline containing every module properly opens up figure windows when using the Restart module to being at something other than setbeinganalyzed = 1.
- Prepare updated manual
- Check whether canceling works 
- Make reference sheet with short descriptions of the modules.
- For each common application (e.g. cell count, yeast colony count, staining intensity, cell cycle, nuclear/cytoplasmic translocation) and cell type (e.g. human, yeast, drosophila), make an example pipeline file and a nice pdf document showing the results: We should use the 'test mode' option in IdentifyPrimAutomatic to show all the possibilities, and then show results from the ideal pipeline. This will give people a good starting place for their images. Anne has example images and starting points for new pipelines in the ExampleFlyImages folder.
- Design an informational brochure
- Make a tutorial to demonstrate how CP is used.
- copy CP code onto CDs for Colin to take to ASCB meeting in San Francisco.
Sites that review and list software:
www.zdnet.com	downloads.mycomputer.com	www.windows95.sk
directory.google.com	www.libpng.org	cn.tech.yahoo.com
www.dmoz.org	softload.narod.ru	www.chinabyte.com
www.winsite.com	www.cheta.net
- Get the email addresses of all corresponding authors from all the research articles Anne has collected and send them an email telling them to visit cellprofiler.org and sign up for the email list if desired.
- The Broad institute has done a lot of thinking and infrastructure for distributing free software. They have narrowed down to 3 licenses (GPL, a variant of academic open source, and one other) that their scientists use and they also have pages to help register users who download their software etc. this might be useful for us.

---------------------------------------------------
POST-PUBLIC RELEASE SUPPORT:
     - Monitor imaging newsgroups and inform people about the software
     - Provide technical support/help desk
     - Fix bugs
     - Maintain for new releases of OS's and Matlab
     - Check Matlab Central for useful code to incorporate into
       CellProfiler or its modules (last checked on 9-16-04:
       Biotech/medical, Graphics (all 3 categories), Image Processing,
       Utilities - GUI Tools & examples, and Misc.) 
     - Organize training workshops
     - Present at conferences
---------------------------------------------------
THINGS TO DO WHEN NEW VERSIONS OF MATLAB COME OUT:
- update the image file formats that are readable in LoadImages modules.

---------------------------------------------------

LONG-TERM:

GUI 1  (Requested by Anne) -(Joo Han might work on this) +++ Histogram DataTool is kind of hacked together at the moment. Streamline it and update its help; possible other improvements: allow fewer labels, plus fewer decimals (right now, it's either-or). If you choose option P (percentage) rather than N (number), the y axis is still labeled 'Number of objects' rather than 'percentage of objects'.

GUI 3 +++  (Requested by Anne) -Make sure the ManualCompiler still works (in DeveloperScripts). Make the help/manual prettier: For each example image that is just text, type the text into the help for that file instead of referring to the image, because as it is these images are stretched a lot.

VISION PROJECTS:

- IMPROVE AUTOMATIC THRESHOLD CALCULATIONS!!!  Implement Ray's belief propagation idea??

  - Write algorithms to compare hand-traced results to CellProfiler
       results quantitatively, then apply them to our hand-traced data
       sets. [2 parts: 1) segment manual images.  2) match object to object, 
	 3) signed distance transfer]

     - Allow batches of different settings to be run and their results
       compared 

     - Allow automatic selection of settings based on hand-traced images

     - Get someone to Hand-outline a second set of images to compare
       to Chris' set. 

     - Make separate Identify Secondary modules: one for bright lines
       and one for dark lines between objects.  Also try watershedding
       the gradient image rather than the original. 

     - Improve background/cell edge finding - threshold vs. adaptive
       threshold vs. watershed
---------------------------------------------------

PROBABLY DO NOT WANT TO INVEST TIME IN THESE IMMEDIATELY:

-(I THINK ANNE SAID THIS WAS DONE) (Requested by Anne 8-23-05) - Try to get yeast identification working for phase contrast images - a lot of people want this and I think it's doable but we just haven't put in the effort. IdentifyPrimYeastPhase was one attempt, but it's very empirical and not very adjustable for other images. In fact, it doesn't even work well at the moment for the original images, from Ben 03_25_2005.  Check into the literature for better methods or try to get that method working. Not sure if these references are for fluorescence or phase images:
       SCMD: Saccharomyces cerevisiae Morphological Database. Nucleic Acids Res.
             2004 Jan 1;32 Database issue:D319-22. PMID: 14681423
Perhaps more promising is the paper Coelho, M, Ferreira et al, Applied Microbial and Cell Physiol, 2004, where they mention having Matlab code to accomplish yeast cell segmentation (Anne has this paper).

- (Requested by Colin) - The measure modules create an error when a label matrix with an object completely missing is given to it.  We took care of this by making Identify modules create a single pixel if an object is missing.  It would be nice to allow objects to be missing in measurement modules.  Also, once the measurement modules are working, make sure it is possible to export the data to excel.

VISION 2 +++  (Requested by Anne) -Improve foreground/background determination for the IdentifySecPropagate module.  Ask Ray for advice. Here is one idea:
Make the background correction based on Each image (rather than All images) a little more sophisticated as follows: Cell segmentation and llumination correction can be made simultaneously for best result.
The usual procedure is as follows (the technique is called Expectation Maximization segmentation):
Segment cells
Estimate illumination variation from the background and correct the original image
Re-segment cells
Re-estimate illumination variation from the background and correct the original image
Re-segment cells
Repeat until convergence.
The iterations can be performed on a low-resolution version of the original image, e.g. 200x200 pixels, so I don't think it's time-consuming.  This will involve figuring out how to call a downstream Identify module to use the settings and code from the downstream module (otherwise we'd have to build background subtraction into every identify module). 

++  (Requested by Anne) -Implement the algorithm for in vitro angiogenesis from  IEEE Trans Med Imaging. 2005 Apr;24(4):549-53. Robust quantification of in vitro angiogenesis through image analysis. Niemisto A, Dunmire V, Yli-Harja O, Zhang W, Shmulevich I

++  (Requested by Anne) -Implement the algorithm for migration analysis from Qin J, Chittenden TW, Gao L, Pearlman JD.	 Automated migration analysis based on cell texture: method & reliability. BMC Cell Biol. 2005 Mar 3;6(1):9. 

++  (Requested by Anne) -Implement the algorithm for identifying objects based on granulometry from Prodanov, Heeroma, and Marani, J Neuroscience Methods 2005. The code may be available from the authors directly, or supplemental journal data, or from ImageJ. This might be a good practice to build an interface which allows ImageJ routines to be run within CellProfiler.

+++  (Requested by Anne) -Make a user-scoring module that allows the user to view and
       annotate each image manually. Show control side by side (1-4 at
       a time) and add that assessment to the data structure. Maybe
       allow randomizing (to do blind tests). Allow clicking
       through. Could also be used just for viewing images (e.g. every
       third image in a gigantic image set).  Whether the file name
       and/or sample info is shown should be optional. 

+++  (Requested by Anne 9-14-05) - Implement Bob Murphy's classification algorithms into CP?  These algorithms compare images of protein localization and can tell you which compartment a protein is localized in.  See Chen, Murphy, J Biomed/Biotech 2005 87-95.

+++  (Requested by Anne) -Allow data to be exported to Open Microscopy Environment
       databases.  (Being worked on by Tony Scelfo in Peter Sorger's lab).

+++  (Requested by Anne) -Binucleate cells: figure out how to identify and count them

+++  (Requested by Anne) -Make modules to identify objects in transmitted light/DIC images. Potentially useful references: Heise, Sonnleitner, Klement, Microsc Research & Technique 66:312-320 (2005).  This paper looks like it has a few options for ways to pre-process DIC images to end up with images that look more like fluorescence images which can then be processed using our normal Identify algorithms.

+++  (Requested by Anne) -Align/resize stack of images (like yeast plates). See Matlab
       demo on image registration. Did Chris already do this? 

+++ (Requested by Anne) - Reproduce the major 'big pharma' screening assays:
cell adhesion
Neurite outgrowth
micronucleus formation
protein translocation
cell cycle analysis
cell differentiation
adipogenesis
reporter gene analysis
cell viability
cell spreading
cell proliferation
apoptosis
microtubule formation
receptor trafficking
protein kinase activation
mitotic index
proteasome activity
oligosaccharide synthesis
cell migration
membrane potential
gap junction formation
p-glycoprotein activity

- Neurite tracing algorithm: see potentially useful references: J Neurosci Methods. 2005 Sep 17; Automated identification of axonal growth cones in time-lapse image sequences. Keenan TM, Hooker A, Spilker ME, Li N, Boggy GJ, Vicini P, Folch A.

+++  (Requested by Anne) -Particle tracking over time module. Good references:
Sbalzarini Koumoutsakos J Struct Biol 151 (2005) p 182 has fairly complicated free code in C, although a license of some sort is required.  Also, in there there is a reference to Cheezum BioPhys J 2001, 81, 2378-2388 having several algorithms implemented and compared.
Debeir,  Decaestacker IEEE TRans. Medical Imaging vol 24 no 6 June 2005. I don't really understand the algorithm in this one.
Miura Adv Biochem Engin/Biotech 2005 95:267-295 is a nice overview.
See also Niven, Fuks, J MIcrobiol Methods 2005 where they feed XY locations into a program they wrote called ObjectTracker, which might be helpful.

- (Requested by Anne) - If we want to extend CP to analyze 3D images, there is a good example available here: Gue, Messaoudi, Sun, Boudier Cytometry 2005 on Smart 3D-FISH. It's available as an imageJ plug in so it might be good as a practice to integrate ImageJ and CP.

- (Requested by Anne) - New algorithm to calculate colocalization. Ask Ray if it seems like a good idea. One part of the paper is simply describing the concept of masking the image for the region of interest (ROI) prior to calculating the correlation coefficient, which we already do. But the second part is a different calculation which may be superior to the one we use, but not sure: Jaskolski, Mulle, Manzoni J Neurosci Methods 146(2005) 42-49. The matlab code is apparently available from the authors.

[ASK RAY IF THIS IS WORTH IT (HE SAYS PROBABLY NOT)]>
- Adjust ModuleNames or VariableValues so that their dimensions match (if possible). E.g. the following example has 6 modules loaded, so it would make more sense if VariableValues was a 13 x 6 cell rather than 6 x 13, so that all four Settings have 6 columns.
Settings =      ModuleNames: {1x6 cell}
             VariableValues: {6x13 cell}
         NumbersOfVariables: [13 6 5 6 4 8]
    VariableRevisionNumbers: [2 0 1 0 1 1]
*Note: This requires editing almost all the modules, while this improvement is not absolutely necessary; the time cost should be considered.

[ASK RAY IF THIS IS WORTH IT (HE SAYS PROBABLY NOT)]>
+++ Restructure CellProfiler.m so that the GUI creates a configuration file which is then sent to a simple pipeline program. That would make farming out jobs to multiple machines easier, running a job that broke somewhere, and it would make it easier to create new GUIs aimed at different tasks, if people wanted to. The current GUI wouldn't actually need to change, it could still call the pipeline-running-function and parse errors from it (which is a definite good thing to keep around).   It would be entirely under the hood.
