- [not critical, i think maybe someone else fixed it?] Check "memory leak".
There is an 'ans' variable, containing the entire handles structure, written to the
main workspace, probably by CellProfiler.m.

- [probably you ought to do this before leaving, because I am unclear about what is actually working right now]:
The new WriteSQL module also doesn't match the current ExportSQL2.m Data tool,
which should be changed to use CPConvertSQL.m as well.
When everything is finished, we might consider making the ExportSQL2.m function an
option in the regular ExportData DataTool.

- [not critical, but nice] CPConvertSQL automatically creates column names for the DB from the
hierarchy in handles.  Sometimes these column names are too long.
Currently, all it does is print a warning if this happens.  This may
be sufficient, but perhaps it should be more forceful.  In general,
too long names can be fixed just before importing the data.

- [nearly done, I think?] Polish up IdentifyEasy so that it is consistent with the other
IdentifyPrim modules (e.g. compatible with downstream modules)
Combine all IdentifyPrim options into one module?

- [maybe not practical to accomplish this] Combine all IdentifySec options into one module?

- [nearly done, I think - just a few minor bug fixes?] Check that importing gene names still works and that their output is exportable. This is something
I have not used in a while, so there may be latent bugs already.  It is not something we are using
routinely right now, because mostly we are doing huge jobs where Ray manually imports gene names
and id's into the database, but it should be nearly functional and it's worth keeping its format up with the rest of CP.

- [Should do this or at least leave instructions for how you think the subobjects' measurements ought to be stored before you go] Make a module to identify and count and measure objects within previously identified objects (e.g. nucleoli or
organelles or speckles within nuclei or cells).
This also requires designing a way to store measurements of Subobjects.
See MeasureNeighbors.m for an example of saving several measurements per object.
Need to also develop tools to export the Subobject measurements.
