TODO - Anne										11-16-2006- Decide L'Oreal- Do we need to mine a bigger/better data set? Email Ray.- Write sentences for PD grant- Write pages for RU45 grant- Score other phenotype images by eye [waiting for montages]; then final gene lists > Ingenuity- Find out how much DMS has paid for my group.- Screening paper EC50: is it working now for sure? Make notes for next steps. (Check RealOutput16)- Play with Adam Szafran's images (mike mancini) on sab3_ata.- Score widerborst images [waiting for repeat experiment from Rob]- Alex Meissner's images: [waiting for Steffener to fix bugs]- Chris Love's cell count [Put on hold for a while, Mike has a nice description on his TODO]- Call X01 program officer to discuss getting images from screens to mine for crescent and other phenotypes - can get $25K to fund it?- K awards, pioneer awards (deadline Jan 17th)- old Fly200 synthetic lethal experiments. Slides might not be great, but worth a try (try grouping).- Jelena:  Suggest PAMI or IJCV rather than Trans Img Processing (2nd tier) or Signal Processing (too specific) to co-write a review article, describing the major issues and constraints. Hm, how about a short Perspective article for Science?  Co-launch test image sets with ground truth and constraints, framed as 'unsolved problems in biological image processing'. - Contact Roger Brent.- Meet with Rob more frequently.- Broad HCS chapter due March 1.IF WE HAVE LOST NOVELTY ON THE CLASSIFIER PAPER ANYWAY, LET"S GO AHEAD WITH PUBLISHING OPTION 2:- CellVisualizer paper options (note: need to finish polishing up the software and writing the help):1- software-focused paper for Genome Biol, excluding the Classify function	(Downside: software-focused papers are boring)2- combine with widerborst screen for Nat Cell Biol Tech report or Nature Methods NOW	(Downside: risks undermining the novelty of the Classifier paper)3- combine with widerborst screen for Nat Cell Biol Tech report or Nature Methods LATER	(Downside: will not be very novel after the Classifier paper is published, but perhaps Nat Methods would still want it, particularly if we show the ability to do Classify with it)4- mention it in the main Classifier paper, but basically don't ever publish it.	(Downside: throws a lot of work away into very little benefit, given that the Classifier paper won't discuss it much.)- Widerborst screen options (note: We might remove ana/telo, or put it in supp data. mention the Ma/Beachy paper and the Kulkarni OTE paper about widerborst and state that we tested nonoverlapping and the human homolog.)- wait for Classifier paper to be accepted, because the per-cell focus might undermine the novelty of the Classifier paper, then submit to some tiny journal and state that we don't want to redo the screen using the new methods.Robert:Repeat wdb confirmation experiment, and do caspase 3 assay development (waiting for the other antibody, which is on backorder).Merck & TSC screens (sample preparation).Mike: Mouse arrays (Chris Lipinski at Melior might be interested in the technology).Merck screens (image acquisition and analysis only), figure out caspase antibodyTSC screens (data analysis part)Follow-up Human funky phenotype hits.Ray: - Figure out interpretive follow up for classifying paper.- Incorporate Belief Propagation (Polish up Chris DistinguishPixelLabels), Illumination correction.- work on clustering with Adam.Adam: Make cluster jobs write files that are overwriteable by others.Help Robert pick out cell cycle, cell count, cell size, phospho-S6, synthetic hits & give to lab members.Help other lab members process their data, normalize it, etc. Improve normalization procedures so they are easier for people to do themselves.Improve CellVisualizer as needed.Play with clustering (esp ribosomal components - are they really all the same?)